All right, so with range queries, this
allows you to paginate through results.
And so this, you have the startAt.
And so in this case,
we're back at expenses again.
And we're ordering by date,
cuz when you're doing ranges, or
cursors, you need to know
what you're ordering by.
And we can actually startAt
the first of the year,
and then limit to the last ten items.
And so what this will do is
it will actually, in a way,
maybe do the opposite of
what you would think.
Is that it would start at
the beginning of the year, but
let's say we're all the way
up to the 31st today.
So any expenses it would have,
it would the last ten from today back,
because it's the last one.
So startAT is a way for
you to order by something,
and then curse your way through it.
And then we also have the ability to
combine it with startingAt and endingAt.
And you can still limit within that range,
so this one orders by date again.
It starts at the first of the year,
but it ends at the first of February,
and then we get the last ten of February.
So that helps us figure out ranges, but
how do we move within those ranges?
Well, from this query, we are doing the
same thing where we're ordering by date.
We're starting at
the first of the year and
then ending at the first of February,
limiting the last ten.
And imagine that later on the line,
you click a button to get the next page,
so increasing the window.
What you would do is,
I'm only getting this.
This is a one time get,
which is why you see await.
We have a method called getDocs.
If you don't wanna do real-time updates,
allows you to get all your
information one time.
This gets back my data.
Normally, I would actually have
this within the initial query.
And then I would save that last document,
or the first document, in this case.
And I get this docs, which by the way,
this is a newcomer to JavaScript,
the at method, it's so cool.
You get at an index in an array no more
like array brackets, just, I don't know.
I discovered this the other week, and
I'm just trying to spread the joy.
So the at operator and your arrays,
it's new, it's great, it's awesome.
But then we get the first document
of that query, and then now we can
say startAt the beginning of the year,
just like we're doing up here.
But moving the array,
we can end before the first doc.
So now that first ten we had,
they're gone, and
now we have moved on to the next
ten using that document.
So as you're cursing through or
paging through results,
this is how you create all these pages.
Is that you keep track of where you are,
what was the first, or what was the last,
depending on your query on the document,
and
you pass that to one of
the range functions.
And then that way,
Firestore's smart enough to say, okay,
I'm gonna get all
the documents beyond this way.
And this is actually exactly what
we do in the Firestore console, or
in the emulator when you
see us just scroll through.
We are listening to scroll events, and
we're saying, you're about to hit a scroll
point, so let's change the window.
So that's how we can keep all of your
data kind of rendering in the browser.
So let's go through and work on that.
So this is back to the same page,
same app, that is.
I'm gonna go to ranges and cursory, and
there's nothing there right now,
and go into ranges and cursoring.
So first one, always easy, get the first
20 categories that are in 2022.
So you could do this with greater than or
equal to on a wearable.
We're gonna do this on a range now.
So I'm gonna say where,
I started where, I'm sorry, where,
I just said don't do it where,
I'm gonna first say orderBy.
And we got reversed 20 categories in 2022.
Why did I say categories?
Expenses, that's what I wanna say,
expenses.
So we're gonna say orderBy(dat),
and we're going to say startAt(new
Date(1/1/2022) and
limit to, not limit to,
limit(20).
And make sure you always
include the collection.
I do this all the time,
I always forget the collection.
All right, so this starts at 1/1, and as
I scroll through, goes only down to 1/2.
So all right, we're cursing through that.
And so now,
this one's a little more complicated.
Break that up.
I get the first 20 expenses that contain
the category of transportation or
housing, and
that costs between 100 and 120.
So to do that, I can say, all right,
what do I want to order by?
And then I'm gonna order by cost,
in this case,
because I'm ranging in between these two.
So I can say orderBy(cost),
and I'll say start at 100, end at 120.
And we can still do other
queries on this as well.
So I can still use where, and
I can say where('categories') is,
what is it, 'array-contains-any',
of, let's copy this,
transportation, or housing.
And what's the limit?
Limit the first 20.
What did I do wrong here?
I probably did the same thing again,
didn't I?
Start, startAt.
And I still need the collection,
keep forgetting that.
All right, So
our categories had transportation or
housing.
We started at 100, and we're just doing
the first 20, but we would stop at 120.
Now, I'm gonna skip to
this complicated one.
I'm gonna skip over this third one,
cuz it's more or
less the same of what we've been doing.
What we're gonna to focus on is
we're going to get the first
ten expenses that contain
the category of food, fun, kids.
Food, fun, or kids, it should be written,
that cost between 120, and
then we're going to get the next 10.
So we're going to orderBy('cost'),
startAt, what was it, 100.
EndAt(120), And
then we can say where('categories',
'array-contains-any', ['Food',
'fun', or 'kids']),
And limit to the first 10.
So this will go out, and let's pretend
we click some button or something,
we'll get the results.
We'll grab the last document, and
then from here, we can do more or
less the same,
except we want to start at the last doc.
expensesCol always needs to be
put in there, same up here.
And so now,
this is the ten to kinda show it for
a fact,
this should probably be my console.log,
consol.log = results.docs., my gosh,
docs.map(d.data), just to
kinda show what happened.
You can see we get our
first array of these ones,
and then it goes on to
the next array as well,
so we're able to page through.